The Venice of nearly four hundred years ago was a great, splendid, gay,
and powerful city. Gold was every day showered into the coffers of its
merchants from all parts of the earth, and every night there was
feasting, laughing, and dancing in Venice, the richest and the gayest
city in the world.

On the night when our story opens was being held at the Palazzo
Barberigo a masqued ball. All Venice, masqued, was there. The lamps
hanging in the trees, laughed at the water as it threw back the gay
colored rays of light which kissed it, in tremulous softness and beauty.

And there below on the still canal, the Giudecca, glided the silent
black gondolas, bearing gaily dressed cavaliers and dames to and from
the fête.

So silently the gondolas passed, that not a soul upon the shore knew a
boat had gone by, a boat, perhaps, from which peered out a jealous eye.

The gardens of the palace were large, and ever when the music ceased,
there were seen in all parts of it gay masquers, courting, talking,
singing, flirting, or watching.

Among the guests was Gennaro, young and beautiful as the nights of
Italy. With him was one of the great Orsini, even younger than himself,
and far gayer. Nay, he was but a boy. These two were ever together, in
peace or on the battle-field, at fêtes, or quietly at home.

So now amidst the group wherever walked Orsini, Gennaro had a place.
These two as they sauntered along with their friends, all either
carrying their masks in their hands, or else tied to their belts, these
two were deploring, and being pitied, for they were to leave Venice on
the morrow.

“Alas!” said one, “You will never like Ferrara, as you like the poorest
street in Venice.”

“But, still,” cried another, “‘tis something to form part of an
ambassador’s suite.”

“Faith,” cried a third, “I would sooner be as I am and in Venice.”

“Let me tell you Signors,” said a fourth, who was called Gubetta, a
Spaniard, and not in good repute, “let me tell you the court of Alfonzo
is superb, and as for Lucrezia Borgia”--

“What!” cried one, “name _her_, here, at a fête?”

“Pray ye be silent,” cried another.

“The Borgia,” said a third, “I abhor her very name.”

“In faith,” added another, “‘twould not be saying much for thee to say
that thou lovdst her.”

“As for us,” said the Orsini, whom they called Maffio, “we should dread
her more than any of you, if the sorcerer spoke truly.”

“Again a tale, Maffio,” said Gennaro. “Leave the Borgia alone, who cares
to hear of her.”

“No, no, Gennaro, let us hear the tale. Go on Maffio.”

“Then I’ll fain go to sleep,” said Gennaro. “Faith I could fall asleep
standing, when Orsini begins his long tales.”

“Signors, ’tis a good tale, though my friend has heard it before. See,
now, he has flung himself down on that seat. Well,--well, ’tis but two
ears the less. In the fatal battle of Rimini I was wounded; and while
lying on the ground, and dying as I thought, Gennaro found me, helped me
to horse, and bore me in safety from the field. In the shelter of a
wood he was dressing my wounds, and we had both sworn to live and die
together, when an aged man, clad in a dress falling to his feet, stood
before us. ‘Youths,’ said he, ‘shun the Borgia, go not near Lucrezia,
she is death.’ Then he was gone, gone. And the wind thrice whispered the
hated name. There--what think you of my tale? See you, Gennaro would not
listen to it, because he loveth not to be praised.

“A good tale but it does not prove thou shouldst shun the Borgia.”